For over 100 years, Jehovah's Organization has been producing books to help us teach people Bible truths.
Do you remember when some of these study books were released?
This means everlasting life was released in 1950.
The truth that leads to eternal life in 1968.
You can live forever in Paradise on Earth in 1982,
and knowledge that leads to everlasting life in 1995.
What did those titles have in common?
They show that it's possible for a person to learn what Jehovah requires to live forever.
And that's why we keep searching for people who are rightly disposed for everlasting life
and who are willing to study the Bible with us.
All those books and several more that we publish since then
have been instrumental in helping people become believers in our wonderful hope for the future.
In 2021, we added one more book to the list entitled,
Enjoy Life Forever, An Interactive Bible Course.
This title adds another element that is possible not only to gain everlasting life,
but also to learn how to enjoy life even now.
The title is taken from Psalm 2226, which says,
Those seeking Jehovah will praise him,
May you enjoy life forever.
This newest study publication is very different from all the others that we've produced.
In this broadcast, we want to explain what went on behind the scenes to produce enjoy life forever.
Under the direction of the governing body, hundreds of Bethelites around the world
worked very hard to make it possible for us to have this innovative study tool.
However, they'll be quick to say that all credit for this goes to Jehovah.
That's why we can say just as a prophet Isaiah said in ancient times of our great God,
O Jehovah, everything we have done you have accomplished for us.
We know that any success we enjoy is because of Jehovah's direction and blessing.
And so the theme of this presentation is,
See what Jehovah has done for us.
The faithful discrete slave has always taken very seriously Jesus command recorded at Matthew 2819.
Go and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them.
And that's what our Bible study activity aims to accomplish.
For decades, our method of conducting studies was to study printed material paragraph by paragraph.
When answering the questions for the paragraph, some students will often just repeat what was stated in the book.
However, it was hard to know whether the truth was really touching their heart.
With enjoy life forever, we're using a different method of teaching that generates candid expressions by the students in their own words.
This is just what the governing body feels is needed to bring new ones to dedication and baptism during these urgent last days.
If you've begun conducting Bible studies with enjoy life forever, you can appreciate how it's adjusting our Bible study work.
Here's what some long time pioneers have said after covering just one lesson on their studies.
This was the most beautiful spiritual conversation I've ever had with a student.
My student revealed things she had never told me before. I felt as if I was hearing her heart for the first time.
It truly reaches the heart and motivates students to action.
One brother wrote, I'm so excited about this new Bible course that I am begging Jehovah to hear my prayers to be able to conduct progressive studies.
It was early in 2019 when the writing committee took on the amazing project to produce a new Bible study tool.
They assembled a team of writers, designers, and consultants to investigate whether we could improve the publications that we were then using.
This is a very first discussion session. Everyone was encouraged to pray often about the task at hand, to pray when thinking about it, when brainstorming with others, and when working on it, and to respond to the influence of Holy Spirit.
Why pray so much? Proverbs 16 verse 3 gives the answer.
Commit to Jehovah whatever you do and your plans will succeed.
The team was also encouraged to think outside the box, which means to think outside or beyond the way things have always been done in the past.
Times have changed, people have changed, and the way that many prefer to be taught has changed.
These days they respond better to multimedia that engages them and holds their attention.
The challenge is to connect all nine dots with just four straight lines. Here are a few examples of how some will try to solve the puzzle.
Notice that with each attempt, one dot is missed. The problem is that our mind tends to build a box around the dots, and that instantly limits what we can imagine.
The only way to connect all nine dots with just four straight lines is by going outside the box and thinking differently than we normally would.
The point was to show that novel, creative thinking was needed to imagine something other than the traditional way of studying the Bible with people.
With Jehovah's Spirit guiding, fresh thinking, it would be interesting to see what innovative ideas could be thought of on how to teach the truth to Bible students.
And yet it was felt that our brothers and sisters would need to see some familiar features in the new publication.
That's why the first part of each lesson is designed similar to the Good News brochure.
It features numbered questions, each followed by a paragraph that briefly covers fundamental facts about the topic.
Next, the dig deeper section, Reasons on the Topic, shows how to apply what's learned and discusses what the topic teaches us about Jehovah.
It includes features found in the Life and Ministry meeting workbook, bolleted discussion points, scriptures to read, videos to play, and viewpoint questions to answer.
And like the study articles in the Watch Tower, the last part of each lesson includes just three review questions.
It was decided that we could cover much less printed material and let the Bible do the teaching.
That we need to draw out the students' feelings with well-worded viewpoint questions and include videos in generous artwork.
We must help the student to see Jehovah as a real person and to develop a warm relationship with him and encourage the student to get into a routine or regular Bible reading prayer and meeting attendance.
Does enjoy life forever provide what we need to accomplish all of that? It certainly does.
The scriptures are the focal point of each lesson, so the student is prompted to find answers in the Bible.
The questions draw out the student's feelings about what he's learning.
Early in the course, students are helped to appreciate what Jehovah is like, to feel his love for them, and to see how to draw close to him as their friend.
The beautiful artwork and motivating videos have real emotional impact.
This project to produce enjoy life forever require the collaboration of six departments at World Headquarters.
As directed by the governing body, the writing department researched, wrote, and proofread the text for each lesson.
These were then sent to hundreds of brothers and sisters around the world to test them on their Bible studies.
The writing department coordinated the work with other departments to keep the project on schedule.
Translation services helped to simplify the vocabulary and logic of what was written.
They identified any English text that would be a problem for translators to render in their local languages.
As of right now, enjoy life forever has been approved and upward of 700 languages.
The art department designed the book's layout and artwork.
These and several branches photographed models to help the illustrators create the many beautiful scenes that appear in the book, which contains over 600 images.
Maps programming develop new tools so that the digital version of the book in the JW Library app would look similar to the printed edition.
This was the first publication for which both print and digital formats were designed simultaneously.
Accessing services composed the text and artwork for both the print and digital formats, transcribed the book into English Braille, and instructed the branches on how to produce the book in their languages.
Audio video services produced several new videos and excerpts of many existing videos from the JW.org website.
They also produced unique audio recordings of the book that include various voices and sounds.
This was truly a collaborative effort, but there was a major problem that could have stalled this project, COVID-19.
When World Headquarters and the branches were locked down, 60% of the project still needed to be completed, and yet the governing body had given it a high priority.
The following video will give you some idea of how the departments worked together to get their work done despite the challenges they faced during the pandemic.
Everything about enjoy life forever is different from any other publication we've produced in the past, and from the start of the project two things were critical, good communication and good documentation.
But honestly, time and again, the thing that proved to be the most important was reliance on Jehovah.
The writing committee's goal was to create a first-class digital experience that would engage Bible students.
The digital design system had to be completely remodeled, so that enjoy life forever would look uniform, whether it's viewed in JW Library on JW.org or in print.
Right from the inception of this project, the brothers looked for inputs of a study material would be easily available in as many languages as possible.
That reason, a team from translation services worked along with the writers.
A publication of this size would usually take about two or three years to complete, but the writing committee was really interested in getting the enjoy life forever book out there as soon as possible.
The enjoy life forever book required an intense amount of collaboration. Right from the beginning, the writing committee got all six departments together, so we could work unidely through their production.
Enjoy life forever has many elements, over 250 pages of text, 597 images, 121 video boxes, 840 links, and 62 QR codes.
Also, the gold box must allow the student to add text, and we had to build alternate layouts for languages that have longer text, and for languages that read right to the left.
Our existing toolset didn't have the ability to style digital publications like we can with print. We could do black text on a white background with gray boxes.
That was the extent of the functionality that we had available.
Enjoy life forever is very interactive for the student. When producing the audio for this publication, we endeavor to maintain that feel.
So, we added multiple voices, musical cues, and in some cases, the audio track for the video was re-edited to teach the point effectively.
When we got to lesson 32, we felt that it might be too complicated to build as a digital experience, but that's when the collaboration really paid off.
It took every tool that we had, and basically every track, in order to build the digital version of that lesson.
As we were working on the prototype, we would collaborate with the user experience group to make sure that the look and feel of the digital addition was the same, whether it was on a large device or a small device.
The entire chart is a visual aid, so we wanted to be sure that all of our users, especially those who are visually impaired, would be able to understand the teaching point.
This required us to build the chart so that screen readers could read the text, and that each picture would have a description for those who needed it.
Early in the concept stage, we understood that there would be about 200 videos in this publication requiring thousands of hours of work.
8 brand new videos of the remaining videos around 60 would need to be edited.
Just as the 8 new videos were entering the production phase, COVID-19 hit, effectively halting video production around the world.
This work stoppage continued until each branch could determine how they could film safely, and still meet the deadline only nine months away.
Due to the pandemic, photo sessions here at headquarters were completely stopped for four months.
Now, as things progressed, we were able to resume photography only adhering to strict protocols.
For example, we had a family photograph themselves while being directed by the art department here.
So everything that a Bible study conductor has been trained to do, ask all the important questions, develop love for Jehovah in their Bible students, show videos, it's all built into the publication.
So would the concept work with actual Bible students?
To find out we did in-house testing, and then at the same time we sent out the lessons around the world to publishers, pioneers, missionaries, circuit overseers,
and they used the lessons with actual Bible students.
And we tested every lesson of the book this way, and then the responses that we got back were analyzed and we made further refinements.
We had hundreds of team meetings, and we felt Jehovah's Holy Spirit equipping all of us after we opened a meeting with prayer.
When you collaborate, you get a better product. It's more direct, simpler, and easier to understand.
Also, thinking ahead about potential transition problems and addressing them helped expedite translation in hundreds of languages.
I saw firsthand how Jehovah uses his organization to give us what we need at the right time, even with the pandemic.
The results showed me that Jehovah was in control of the project.
I feel that Jehovah helped us accomplish this job in a shorter amount of time, and a quality that would have been very difficult, even under normal circumstances.
How amazing is Jehovah?
With the governing body, wholeheartedly embracing the project, and everyone on the production team willingly giving their all, we could see clear evidence of Jehovah's backing.
Now that we've seen what Jehovah has wonderfully done for us, what must we do for him?
Remember, Jesus commanded Matthew 28, 19, and 20, applies to all Christians.
Regarding that command, note what the article keep busy during the last of the last day's states in the October 2019 issue of the Watchtower.
As we conduct Bible studies, we have to try our best to make disciples, teaching them to observe all the things Jesus has commanded.
We need to help people understand how important it is for them to take their stand for Jehovah and his kingdom.
This means trying to motivate people to make the truth their own by applying what they learn, dedicating their life to Jehovah, and getting baptized.
Only then will they survive Jehovah's Day.
In most parts of the earth, people are not waiting in line for Bible studies.
So we have to be proactive trying our best to find people with whom we can start and conduct progressive studies, using our interactive Bible course.
We want as many right-hearted persons as possible to become Jehovah's willing, loyal witnesses.
Here are seven suggestions you can write down now and try later. They really work.
The first and most important is pray for a Bible study.
Never underestimate the power of prayer. So be specific in your prayers and keep praying for studies.
Work in harmony with your prayers by offering studies at every opportunity, including to your relatives and acquaintances.
Two, show people the brochure. Use the intriguing question on the back cover to peak their interest.
It asks, is it possible to enjoy life forever?
Offer to cover the three introductory lessons in the brochure.
After that, the person can decide whether to continue with the rest of the Bible course in the book.
Three, try the direct approach. Introduce yourself as a Bible teacher and come right out and ask people whether they would like to learn more about the Bible.
Explain that we have a most enjoyable and easy interactive Bible course, and that you have openings in your teaching schedule.
Four, ask your studies for referrals.
You can do this while studying the first paragraph of lesson one. It asks, do you think that the Bible can help anyone you know?
If your student mentions a friend, a relative, a neighbor or a workmate, offer it to demonstrate the course to that person.
Five, approach meeting attenders. Don't assume that interested ones you see at congregation meetings are already studying.
Ask them, and if they are not currently studying, offer to get them started.
Six, ask non-witness marriage mates. When was the last time they were offered a Bible study?
Even if they had declined an offer in the past, they might be interested now, and they may prefer to study with someone outside their family.
And seven, talk to those who studied before. Did you study with someone years ago in one of our other publications who did not make any progress?
Why not contact them, explain that we have a new interactive Bible course, and ask if they'd like to study again.
This may be just what they need now to act on what they learn.
A key principle that applies to the efforts we put forth in the Bible study work is found at Galatians 6 verse 9, which says,
so let us not give up in doing what is fine for in due time we will reap if we do not tire out.
So may we never lose our enthusiasm and making disciples nor relax our efforts.
With Jehovah's rich blessing on our Bible study activity, use the enjoy life forever.
We'll be able to say thankfully, oh Jehovah, everything we have done, you have accomplished for us.